# IOT_hardware_project

With an exhausting stock of fuels, there has been increasing in the usage of solar power, for best power output solar panels need to be supervised. Sometimes due to dust accumulation or any physical damage or faulty connection panels are not able to provide optimal power and degrades the solar performance. As in large solar farms, it is very difficult to look after reach and every solar panel, we have to remotely monitor if all panels are doing good or not. So we are going to prepare such a system that monitors our solar panels and notifies us if any panel is producing less power than expected. We will use IoT on which this system will be based, so we can monitor these panels over the internet from any location. This system will constantly monitor panels and share power output value to users’ phones over the internet. We will use an Arduino microcontroller for controlling system and sensing outputs of solar panels. This collected data is transmitted to the internet over a WiFi module (Node MCU). Also if power drops below certain limits user will be notified. Thus this system makes monitoring of large farms and even small ones from a far distance.



                             USER MANUAL


Users should download code from the given link. Connect Arduino board and node MCU to a laptop and open code of both boards in Arduino ide. Select respective boards and ports and upload both codes.User should provide wifi credentials in node MCU code and project token generated by blynk app in order to connect to the app and see real-time values of power ,voltage, current.

